FullNode - geth
LightNode - les


Clique

The algorithm proceeds in epochs which are identified by a prefixed sequence of
committed blocks. When a new epoch starts, a special transition block is broadcasted.

It specifies the set of authorities (i.e., their ids) and can be used as snapshot of the current
blockchain by new authorities needing to synchronise


each authority is only allowed to propose a block every N/2+ 1 blocks
N − (N/2 + 1) allowed to propose block at each step

each non-leader authority proposing a block delays its block by a random time,
hence the leader block is likely to be the first received by all the authorities

Clique computes the current step and related leader using a formula that combines
the block number and the number of authorities.

Fork - GHOST




Aura

2 rounds: block proposal, block acceptance
Authorities in smart contract

If authority misbehave voting is started to kick him out, and the blocks
they have proposed can be discarded before being committed

The index s of each step is deterministically computed by each authority
as s = t/step duration, where step duration is a constant determining the duration of a step.
The leader of a step s is the authority identified by the id l = s mod N

If it turns out that all the authorities received
the same block b, they accept b by enqueuing it in Qb

A block b remains in Qb until a majority of authorities propose their blocks, then b
is committed to the blockchain.

Summarising, the algorithm works as follows:

1. Nodes collects transactions in the transaction queue Qtxn;

2. For each step, the primary node seals and broadcasts a block to the network;

3. Nodes who receive a new block, verify its correctness and append it in the queue Qb, waiting for finalisation;

4. When an epoch expires, each node examines the subset of all unfinalised blocks
from Qb. If a chain of waiting blocks has been finalised, than it is committed to the
blockchain. Each committed transaction is removed from the queue Qtxn;


each block proposal requires two message rounds: in the first round the
leader sends the proposed block to all the other authorities, in the second round each
authority sends the received block to all the other authorities.

All authority's are connected


A block is committed after a majority of authorities have proposed their blocks, hence the latency in terms of message
rounds in Aura is 2(N/2 + 1), where N is the number of authorities.

